# Illegal-Vehicle-Smart-Surveillance-System
This project title is Smart Surveillance: A Comprehensive Solution for Car Plate and Model Recognition. It aimed to develop a smart surveillant system that could respond to the authorities such as the JPJ, Police enforcement with suspicious vehicles are detected. The system will be named as Illegal Vehicle Smart Surveillance System. The system can improve the efficiency of checking illegal vehicles and increase the working conditions of the authorities. The system works by inputting the real-time video and it recognizes the vehicle's characteristics such as the vehicle license plate, vehicle brand, and the colour of the vehicle. After the recognition of the vehicle's characteristics, it will be compared to the authorities’ database. If there is any suspicion, it will be auto-remined to the authorities. The project will be using the waterfall method. To complete the data, it is required to prepare a huge amount of the dataset for the training models. The models will be the YOLOV8 to detect the brand and vehicle, GooLeNet to detect the vehicle colour, and EasyORC to extract the text from the image. The system will be launched as the executable file. Besides, there is still a limit to the lack of computer resources and the classes of the brand model. The challenge found in the system is hard to collect the dataset. For future work, it recommends in adding the features with the vehicle model detection.  

This system contain two type file which include the exe file and python file. User can choose any type of file to run the programe.
The database file is in csv file and it inside the utils folder.

link to access google drive for the sample video and exe file. https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1othdpzmgtCISp9ibLiclg9hHmu7eH0Wp?usp=sharing
